Luke's new landing page text (#223)
Yubico/developers.yubico.com: content/WebAuthn/WebAuthn_Developer_Guide/Overview.adoc

FIDO2 introduces the concept of a resident key credential, which is/are stored on the authenticator instead of encrypted and stored on the server. Resident keys also enable passwordless authentication scenarios, at the expense of consuming limited storage space on the authenticator.

== Where FIDO2/WebAuthn credentials should be used
FIDO2/WebAuthn credentials with MFA should be used whenever possible, especially when it comes to sensitive data, like your primary email, financial accounts, and health records.

== FIDO2 is based on open standards

image::fido2_building_blocks.png[]

> FIDO2 is built on top of two open standards: the Web Authentication API (WebAuthn) and the Client to Authenticator Protocol (CTAP2). The two work together and are required to achieve a strong authentication experience. The earlier FIDO U2F protocol working with external authenticators is now renamed CTAP1 in the WebAuthn specifications. FIDO2 and WebAuthn are backwards compatible with U2F authenticators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FIDO2 is built on top of two open standards: the Web Authentication API (WebAuthn) and the Client to Authenticator Protocol (CTAP2). The two work together and are required to achieve a strong authentication experience. The earlier FIDO U2F protocol working with external authenticators is now renamed CTAP1 in the FIDO specifications. FIDO2 and WebAuthn are backwards compatible with U2F authenticators.
```

== How it works
FIDO2/WebAuthn authentication consists of a registration ceremony and an authentication ceremony.

=== Registration Ceremony
Assuming a user has already created an account with the online service, the user registers one or more authenticators against that identity. The authenticator could be a mobile phone, laptop, or YubiKey. Any authenticator that is compliant with CTAP1 or CTAP2 will work.

During the registration ceremony the authenticator creates a FIDO2 credential by generating a private key and public key. The private key stays in the hardware’s secure element while the public key is given to the online service. Possession of this authenticator in combination with a gesture to unlock the use of the credential is now proof of your identity. Unlike a password which is sent over the network and stored on a remote server, neither the private key nor the gesture ever leave the authenticator. They are not sent over the network nor stored on a remote server. Only the public key is stored by the online service.

=== Authentication ceremony

> Authentication happens locally on the authenticator and is verified by the online service. First, a user will make a request to login. The online service will send the client some data, which includes a challenge. Next, the client requests cryptographic proof of user authentication. With the user's consent, the authenticator will return an assertion. This assertion provides evidence that the authenticator is in possession of the private key by signing the client data with the private key. The server then verifies the client data has not been tampered with and uses the public key to verify the signature.

Reviewer: Subtle correction: the client data is not built by the RP, but by the client with input (the challenge) from the RP.

```suggestion
Authentication happens locally on the authenticator and is verified by the online service. First, a user will make a request to login. The online service will send the client a challenge, which the client wraps in its _client data_. Next, the client requests cryptographic proof of user authentication. With the user's consent, the authenticator will return an assertion. This assertion provides evidence that the authenticator is in possession of the private key by signing the client data with the private key. The server then verifies that the client data contains the correct challenge and uses the public key to verify the signature.
```

== User login flows supported
Example FIDO2/WebAuthn authenticator flows:

* **Single factor:** Username + FIDO2 credential
* **Second factor:** Username + password + FIDO2 credential
* **Passwordless single factor:** FIDO2 resident key credential (a ‘resident key’ stores user data on the authenticator)
* **Passwordless MFA:** FIDO2 resident key credential + PIN

FIDO2 is also backwards-compatible with FIDO U2F authenticators

* **Single factor:** Username + FIDO U2F credential
* **Second factor:** Username + password + FIDO U2F credential

== FIDO2/WebAuthn application architecture

image::fido2_app_architecture.png[]

In general, a FIDO2/WebAuthn authentication architecture involves a conversation between a computing environment controlled by a Relying Party and one controlled by the user to be authenticated.

=== FIDO2 Authenticator
The user environment may consist of a client computing device with internal FIDO2 authenticator. The user may also have an external FIDO2 authenticator, such as a YubiKey, which can roam between devices. The authenticator makes credentials, generates cryptographic proof of user authentication, and manages the PIN.

=== Client/Platform

> The client is the bridge between the authenticator and the RP. It implements CTAP2 and client-side WebAuthn API. The client could be a browser exposing the WebAuthn API to web applications, or an OS subsystem exposing a platform-specific FIDO API to native applications such as mobile or desktop apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client is the bridge between the authenticator and the RP. It implements CTAP2 and client-side WebAuthn API, and verifies the identity of the RP to prevent phishing attacks. The client could be a browser exposing the WebAuthn API to web applications, or an OS subsystem exposing a platform-specific FIDO API to native applications such as mobile or desktop apps.
```

=== Relying Party

> The Relying Party's environment consists conceptually of at least a web server and the server-side portions of a web application, plus a WebAuthn server. The WebAuthn server has a trust store, containing the (public) trust anchors for the attestation of FIDO2 Authenticators. Note: a trust store is needed only if RP cares about attestation metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Relying Party's environment consists conceptually of at least a web server and the server-side portions of a web application, plus a WebAuthn server. The WebAuthn server has a trust store, containing the (public) trust anchors for the attestation of FIDO2 Authenticators. Note: a trust store is needed only if the RP cares about attestation metadata.
```

== Key Points

> * FIDO2 credentials are based on an public key cryptographic key pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* FIDO2 credentials are based on a public key cryptographic key pair.
```

* The identity provider validates user identity and maps a FIDO2 credential public key to a user account during the registration step
* FIDO2 credentials can be generated in hardware devices (e.g. security keys, mobile phones, laptops, etc…)  or software, based on policy.

> * Authentication uses a cryptographic key tied to a device and, optionally, something that the person knows (a PIN) or something that the person is (biometric gesture). PINs and biometric gestures do not roam between devices and are not shared with the server; they are stored locally on a device.

Reviewer: It's often ambiguous whether "device" means "computer/phone" or "YubiKey", so let's use more precise terms where the distinction is significant.

```suggestion
* Authentication uses a cryptographic key tied to an authenticator and, optionally, something that the person knows (a PIN) or something that the person is (biometric gesture). PINs and biometric gestures do not roam between authenticators and are not shared with the server; they are stored locally on an authenticator.
```

> * The user’s private key never leaves a device. The authenticating server has a public key that is mapped to the user account during the registration process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The user’s private key never leaves an authenticator. The authenticating server has a public key that is mapped to the user account during the registration process.
```

> * PIN entry, biometric gesture, or touch trigger the device to unlock the private key to cryptographically sign data that is sent to the identity provider in the assertion. This signed data also indicates whether or not a PIN or biometric was used. The authentication request is allowed to proceed after the identity provider verifies the assertion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PIN entry, biometric gesture, or touch trigger the authenticator to unlock the private key to cryptographically sign data that is sent to the identity provider in the assertion. This signed data also indicates whether or not a PIN or biometric was used. The authentication request is allowed to proceed after the identity provider verifies the assertion.
```
